Ms. Jones has been having symptoms
that suggest her heart
disease is worsening
and her stress test revealed
that she has chronic
coronary artery disease.
By the time she visits her cardiologist,
the symptoms have stabilized
and are no longer worsening
in frequency or severity.
This is a radar chart
that depicts the outcomes
and cost associated with
two treatment strategies
for stable coronary artery disease.
One strategy is optimal
medical therapy, or OMT,
which aims to manage
disease with medications
and lifestyle interventions alone.
Another is percutaneous
coronary intervention, or PCI,
plus medication therapy,
which combines OMT
with a non-surgical procedure
that uses a catheter to place a stent
to open narrowed blood
vessels in the heart,
i.e. having a stent
placed in the cath lab.
The outcomes that matter to patients
with coronary artery disease
appear on the outer ring of the chart
and are adapted from
the ICHOM standard set
for coronary artery disease
described earlier in this module.
Ideal performance on each
metric is a score of 100,
represented by the outer
most ring of the chart,
in other words, points farther
from the chart's center
represent better performance.
Note that the reciprocal
of cost is plotted
meaning that the points farther
from the chart's center,
represent better value.
When interpreting these radar charts,
good performance looks like this
and poor performance looks like this.
The data for each outcome on this chart
are from a large, randomized trial
involving 2,287 patients
from across the United States
and Canada, comparing PCI and OMT
and OMT treatment strategies,
known as the Courage trial,
which stands for Clinical
Outcomes Utilizing
Revascularization and
Aggressive Drug Evaluation.
This chart illustrates the
overall Courage trial outcomes
and patient reported
health status outcomes
at six months after
enrollment in the trial.
Now this chart illustrates the
same Courage outcome trials
with the same patient reported
health status outcomes
but three years after
enrollment in the trial.
Six month,
three year.
Notice that while PCI and OMT treatment
may help improve her chest pain
and physical limitations when walking,
these effects are
decreased as time goes on
and the chance for a heart attack
is very similar between
the two treatment options.
These charts could be
a tool that Ms. Jones
and her physician review to inform them
of the relative benefits and costs
associated with two different
treatment strategies
for Ms. Jones' coronary artery disease.
They could also help Ms. Jones decide
which treatment strategy
maximizes the outcomes
that matter to her most,
because what matters to her
will differ from what
matters to other patients
with the same disease
that her physician treats.
Weighing and ranking these outcomes
will have to be part of a discussion
between Ms. Jones and her physician.